README.md, before:

# BE 500 Introduction to Differential Equations for Bioengineers (Spring 2026)

Welcome to the BE 500: Introduction to Differential Equations for Bioengineers course.

Differential equations are powerful mathematical tools used to model and analyze dynamic systems that change over time.
In bioengineering, these equations play a critical role in understanding biological processes, medical systems, and
complex interactions within living organisms. This course introduces students to the fundamental concepts of
differential equations and their applications in bioengineering, bridging mathematics with real-world problem-solving.

This course provides both theoretical and practical knowledge about modeling biological and medical phenomena using
ordinary and partial differential equations (ODEs and PDEs). Students will learn analytical, numerical, and graphical
methods to solve these equations and interpret their results in the context of bioengineering challenges. The course
emphasizes hands-on experience with computational tools like MATLAB or Python to simulate and visualize solutions,
enabling students to tackle problems in areas such as population dynamics, pharmacokinetics, biomechanics, and neural
modeling.

By integrating foundational calculus principles with advanced modeling techniques, this course equips students with the
skills to address complex bioengineering problems through the lens of differential equations. It also lays the
groundwork for further exploration into advanced topics such as stochastic and nonlinear systems, preparing students for
future research and innovation in the field.

> If you encountered any issues or errors in the code or lectures, please feel free to let me know. I will be more than
> happy to fix them and update the repository accordingly. Your feedback is highly appreciated and will help me improve
> the quality of the content provided in this series.

## Full Playlist and Videos

This series is your gateway to the fascinating world of applying differential equations using Python and MATLAB.

**Videos (Summer 2025)**:

1. [BE 500: Introduction to Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 01](https://youtu.be/L3N21-eoeyw)
2. [BE 500: Introduction to Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 02](https://youtu.be/GTeuZPRCO-A)
3. [BE 500: Introduction to Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 03](https://youtu.be/dqMObTKBIs4)
4. [BE 500: Introduction to Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 04](https://youtu.be/WLHyKi5Pmf4)
5. [BE 500: Introduction to Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 05](https://youtu.be/Ixhy2mRDSyE)
6. [BE 500: Introduction to Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 06](https://youtu.be/y8aPzrKfP5k)
7. [BE 500: Introduction to Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 07](https://youtu.be/6r3msjLkcdw)
8. [BE 500: Introduction to Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 08](https://youtu.be/CzJw_8mZAzM)
9. [BE 500: Introduction to Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 09](https://youtu.be/wbUke2zrSZ0)
10. [BE 500: Introduction to Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 10](https://youtu.be/0j6MsCJX3mI)

## Code

All code used in the lectures will be available in this GitHub
repository (https://github.com/HossamBalaha/BE-500-Introduction-to-Differential-Equations-for-Bioengineers) in
the "MATLAB" and "Python" folders.

## Requirements.

Python dependencies used by the lecture scripts are listed in `requirements.txt` at the project root.
Install them into your environment with the following command from the project root.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage.

The following example shows how to run one of the Python lecture scripts on Windows using `cmd.exe`.
This example runs `Lecture_01_Lab_Exercise_1_Differentiation.py` which computes a symbolic derivative and plots the
results.

1. Create and activate a virtual environment (recommended for isolation).

```bash
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate
```

2. Install the project dependencies from `requirements.txt`.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Run the lecture script from the project root.

```bash
python Python\Lecture_01_Lab_Exercise_1_Differentiation.py
```

Notes.

- Replace the script path to run other lecture examples, for example `Python\Lecture_01_Lab_Exercise_2_Integration.py`.
- On non-Windows shells (PowerShell, macOS, Linux), adjust the virtual environment activation command accordingly.

## Copyright and License

No part of this series may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, including
photocopying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the prior written permission of the author,
except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical reviews and certain other noncommercial uses permitted by
copyright law. For permission requests, contact the author.

The code provided in this series is for educational purposes only and should be used with caution.
The author is not responsible for any misuse of the code provided.

If you need to use the code for research or commercial purposes, please contact the author for a written permission.

## Contact

This series is prepared and presented by `Hossam Magdy Balaha` from the University of Louisville's J.B. Speed School of
Engineering.

For any questions or inquiries, please contact me using the contact information available on my CV at the following
link: https://hossambalaha.github.io/

Commit message:

Update README for BE 500 course: correct title, add badges, and enhance table of contents

README.md, after:

# BE 500 Differential Equations for Bioengineers (Spring 2026)

<!-- Badges: repository stars, python version, requirements file. -->
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/HossamBalaha/BE-500-Introduction-to-Differential-Equations-for-Bioengineers?style=social)](https://github.com/HossamBalaha/BE-500-Introduction-to-Differential-Equations-for-Bioengineers)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8%2B-blue)](https://www.python.org/)
[![Requirements](https://img.shields.io/badge/requirements-requirements.txt-lightgrey)](requirements.txt)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Copyright%20All%20Rights%20Reserved-red)](LICENSE)

Welcome to the BE 500: Differential Equations for Bioengineers course.

Differential equations are powerful mathematical tools used to model and analyze dynamic systems that change over time.
In bioengineering, these equations play a critical role in understanding biological processes, medical systems, and
complex interactions within living organisms. This course introduces students to the fundamental concepts of
differential equations and their applications in bioengineering, bridging mathematics with real-world problem-solving.

This course provides both theoretical and practical knowledge about modeling biological and medical phenomena using
ordinary and partial differential equations (ODEs and PDEs). Students will learn analytical, numerical, and graphical
methods to solve these equations and interpret their results in the context of bioengineering challenges. The course
emphasizes hands-on experience with computational tools like MATLAB or Python to simulate and visualize solutions,
enabling students to tackle problems in areas such as population dynamics, pharmacokinetics, biomechanics, and neural
modeling.

By integrating foundational calculus principles with advanced modeling techniques, this course equips students with the
skills to address complex bioengineering problems through the lens of differential equations. It also lays the
groundwork for further exploration into advanced topics such as stochastic and nonlinear systems, preparing students for
future research and innovation in the field.

> If you encountered any issues or errors in the code or lectures, please feel free to let me know. I will be more than
> happy to fix them and update the repository accordingly. Your feedback is highly appreciated and will help me improve
> the quality of the content provided in this series.

## Table of Contents.

- [Full Playlist and Videos](#full-playlist-and-videos).
- [Code](#code).
- [Requirements](#requirements).
- [Usage](#usage).
- [Copyright and License](#copyright-and-license).
- [Contact](#contact).

## Full Playlist and Videos

This series is your gateway to the fascinating world of applying differential equations using Python and MATLAB.

**Videos (Summer 2025)**:

1. [BE 500: Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 01](https://youtu.be/L3N21-eoeyw)
2. [BE 500: Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 02](https://youtu.be/GTeuZPRCO-A)
3. [BE 500: Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 03](https://youtu.be/dqMObTKBIs4)
4. [BE 500: Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 04](https://youtu.be/WLHyKi5Pmf4)
5. [BE 500: Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 05](https://youtu.be/Ixhy2mRDSyE)
6. [BE 500: Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 06](https://youtu.be/y8aPzrKfP5k)
7. [BE 500: Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 07](https://youtu.be/6r3msjLkcdw)
8. [BE 500: Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 08](https://youtu.be/CzJw_8mZAzM)
9. [BE 500: Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 09](https://youtu.be/wbUke2zrSZ0)
10. [BE 500: Differential Equations for Bioengineers - Lecture 10](https://youtu.be/0j6MsCJX3mI)

## Code

All code used in the lectures will be available in this GitHub
repository (https://github.com/HossamBalaha/BE-500-Introduction-to-Differential-Equations-for-Bioengineers) in
the "MATLAB" and "Python" folders.

## Requirements

Python dependencies used by the lecture scripts are listed in `requirements.txt` at the project root.
Install them into your environment with the following command from the project root.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

The following example shows how to run one of the Python lecture scripts on Windows using `cmd.exe`.
This example runs `Lecture_01_Lab_Exercise_1_Differentiation.py` which computes a symbolic derivative and plots the
results.

1. Create and activate a virtual environment (recommended for isolation).

```bash
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate
```

2. Install the project dependencies from `requirements.txt`.

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Run the lecture script from the project root.

```bash
python Python\Lecture_01_Lab_Exercise_1_Differentiation.py
```

Notes.

- Replace the script path to run other lecture examples, for example `Python\Lecture_01_Lab_Exercise_2_Integration.py`.
- On non-Windows shells (PowerShell, macOS, Linux), adjust the virtual environment activation command accordingly.

## Copyright and License

No part of this series may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, including
photocopying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the prior written permission of the author,
except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical reviews and certain other noncommercial uses permitted by
copyright law. For permission requests, contact the author.

The code provided in this series is for educational purposes only and should be used with caution.
The author is not responsible for any misuse of the code provided.

If you need to use the code for research or commercial purposes, please contact the author for a written permission.

## Contact

This series is prepared and presented by `Hossam Magdy Balaha` from the University of Louisville's J.B. Speed School of
Engineering.

For any questions or inquiries, please contact me using the contact information available on my CV at the following
link: https://hossambalaha.github.io/
